We took no tent, but relied entirely on fine weather and buffalo robes.
For the first few days the track lay through a gameless and
uninteresting alkali country. The dryness of the atmosphere was
remarkable. Moist sugar became as hard as rock; discharged powder left
nothing but a little dry dust in the gun-barrels; our lips cracked, and
our fingernails grew so brittle that it was impossible to pare without
breaking them. As we proceeded, the scenery grew wild, and in places
fine. On many slopes the pine forests had been swept by fire, and
skeleton trunks, from which the bark had fallen away, stood out in
ghostly array from the yellow, red, and russet undergrowth, or looked
with ascetic asperity upon the bright belt of light-leaved willow
bushes, whose boughs danced gaily in the sunlight on the foot-hills.

At length we surmounted a low divide at the head of the Centennial
Valley, and caught our first glimpse of Henry's Lake. In the purple haze
of an autumnal sunset it lay below us; and the ripples that dwelt there,
waked from their midday slumbers by the evening breeze, sparkled, and
glittered, and tossed, and laughed, whilst they restlessly compared
their blue, and gold, and violet reflections, and chased each other to
the shores of emerald islands out on the silver bosom of the waters.
Time was when only the sun came up and looked in upon the solitude of
this beautiful sheet of water, dreaming its time away in the still heart
of the mountains. At most an occasional Indian wandered thither, to hunt
antelope on its grassy shores, wild fowl in its reedy fringe, or spear,
by torchlight, the noble trout that haunt its crystal depths. Now it is
in a fair way to become a summer resort. Already a log hotel has been
tried there, and jam-pots and empty meat-tins lie around it in
profusion. Fortunately, for some reason it has been deserted. So the
pelicans, the swans, and geese that dot the lake's wide surface, the
ducks and flocks of teal that sail there in fleets, or skim in close
order to and fro, the grouse in the willow thickets, and the wary
regiments of antelope upon the slopes, have yet a respite of comparative
security to enjoy before civilisation drives them from their patrimony.

We frequently camped near a trout stream. The trout, although proof
against the persuasive influence of the artificial fly, were generally
amenable to the seductions of the grasshopper, the butterfly, or grub.
Dick's disgust at fly-fishing was amusing. One day B. lent him a rod,
and I gave him some flies. He was absent about an hour, and then
returned, with but little more than the winch and the butt of the rod.